Text Mining:
According to some reports in 2018, around 2.5 quintillion bytes of data are created every day
and it’s going to increase every year. The data we create includes videos, audios, images, text
and many more. With increase in data every business needs proper tools and techniques to
utilize their data to extract useful information about their products and customers. Data is key to
businesses and proper utilization of those data adds value to the organization. Data is collected
from the customer through social media, emails, text messages and many more on a day to day
basis. As data increases exponentially with the time, every organization must learn how to
analyse the data correctly.
One of the techniques to analyse the data more efficiently is text mining. Text mining is simply
the process of transforming unstructured text into a structured format so that new conclusions,
patterns and insights can be drawn from it. As most of the data such as email, customer
feedback, text messages consists of text data; text mining is becoming extremely important.
Every big organization uses text mining to gather meaningful patterns from the data so that they
get to know the needs of their customer more effectively and efficiently.
Text Mining Process:
The process of text mining combines several techniques that enable us to deduce the
information from the unstructured data. The general process in text mining are;
1. The first step involved in text mining is collection of data i.e. text. The data can be
collected from different sources such as websites, emails, social media, blogs and
others. All the available data are gathered together in the initial step.
2. After the collection of data, text pre-processing is carried out. This is the main step in text
mining and requires lots of time and effort. The collected data may be structured,
semi-structured and unstructured. In text pre-processing all the available data is
cleansed to create structured data. These steps consist of methods such as text
cleanup, tokenization, filtering, stemming, lemmatization, linguistic processing, part of
speech recognition and word sense disambiguation.
3. After the pre-processing of data, various techniques are used to analyse the data. The
analysis must be carried out on structured data as it gives efficient results. The commonmethods used in these steps are information extraction, information retrieval,
categorization, clustering, visualization and summarization.
4. Finally the obtained results are evaluated and stored for future reference.
In this way the data obtained from different sources are used to get the meaningful patterns
using text mining.
Text Mining Techniques:
Text mining techniques are used to discover the insights from structured text/data. These text
mining techniques use different tools, methods and applications for their execution. The various
text mining techniques are;
1. Information Extraction
It is one of the most famous text mining techniques. This technique focuses on
identifying the extraction of entities, attributes and their relationships from the available
textual data. Whatever information is extracted from the data is then stored in a
database for future access and retrieval. The efficiency and relevancy of the results are
evaluated using precision and recall processes.
2. Information Retrieval
Information Retrieval is the process of extracting relevant and associated patterns based
on a specific set of words or phrases. In this text mining technique, information retrieval
systems make use of different algorithms to track and monitor user behaviors and
discover relevant data accordingly.
3. Categorization
Categorization is one of the most popular supervised learning methods. In this
technique, normal language texts are assigned to a predefined set of classes or topics
depending upon their content. In this technique, the text documents are gathered,
processed and analysed to find the right topics or indexes for each document. Naive
Bayesian classifier, Decision tree, Nearest Neighbour classifier and Support Vendor
Machines are commonly used to categorize the texts.4. Clustering
Clustering is one of the most popular unsupervised learning methods in which the data
points that are neither classified nor labeled. In this technique the group of text
documents which have similar contents are divided into a cluster. The K-means
clustering algorithm is one of the most used clustering techniques in which the available
data are divided into different clusters by using mean values.
5. Visualization
Visualization is used to simplify and enhance the discovery of useful information with
visual cues. It uses visual cues such as text flags to indicate individual documents or
document categories and colours to indicate the density of a category, entity, phrase,
etc. It is used in placing the large sources of textual data in visual hierarchy.
6. Summarization
Summarization is used to reduce the length of the document and summarize the
document’s details in brief. Summarization determines the most important points in a
lengthy document and replaces the entire set of documents with new important points
quickly and efficiently. Summarization involves three steps i.e. pre-processing,
processing, and development. Pre-processing step involves building a structured
representation of the text whereas different algorithms are used to get a summary of text
in processing and finally the development step is where the final text summary is
obtained.
Text Mining Methods:
Traditionally, there are lots of methods developed to solve the text mining problem which is
relevant information retrieval according to the user’s requirements. According to information
retrieval there are four main methods used in text mining.
1. Term Based Method (TBM)
Term refers to a word with semantic meaning. In term based methods a document is
analyzed on the basis of the term and has the advantage of efficient computational
performance as well as mature theories from their weighting. Term based method faces
enormous challenges in case of polysemy and synonymy. Polysemy means a word hasmultiple meanings and synonymy is multiple words with the same meaning. The
semantic meaning of many extracted terms is uncertain and does not provide full
information for answering what the user wants.
2. Phrase Based Method (PBM)
Phrase based method may have advantages over term based method as it carries more
semantics like information and is less ambiguous. In phrase based methods the
document is analyzed on a phrase basis as it is more discriminative than individual
terms.
3. Concept Based Method (CBM)
In this method terms are analyzed on sentences and document level. Concept based
methods can effectively discriminate between non important terms and meaningful terms
which describe the meaning of the sentences. This model normally relies upon natural
language
processing
techniques.
Feature
selection
is used to optimize the
representation and to remove the noise and ambiguity in the document.
4. Pattern Taxonomy Method (PTM)
In this method documents are analyzed in terms of pattern basis. Taxonomy refers to the
process of finding the root words. Patterns can be structured into a taxonomy by using
is-a relationship and can be discovered using techniques like rule mining, frequent
itemset mining, sequential pattern mining and closed pattern mining. This method refines
discovered patterns in text documents and has efficient performance than that of
concept based and term based methods.
Text Mining Applications:
Text mining has improved user experiences and business decisions. Most of the companies are
using text mining tools to add value to their organization and products. Some application areas
of text mining includes;
1. Risk Management
One of the main causes of business failure is due to lack of proper or insufficient risk
analysis. Integrating risk management software powered by text mining technologies canhelp businesses to stay updated with all current trends in the market and boost their
abilities to cover up the potential risks.
2. Customer Care Service
When the business system is integrated with text analytical tools, feedback systems,
chatbots, online reviews, support tickets and social media profiles, it enables us to
improve the customer experience with speed. Text mining and sentiment analysis can
provide mechanisms for us to prioritize key points for our customer, allowing us to
respond to urgent issues in real-time and helps to increase the customer satisfaction.
3. Healthcare
One of the major applications of text mining is the healthcare sector as it provides
valuable information to the researchers. Manual investigation of medical research can be
very costly and time consuming. As text mining provides an automation method for
extracting the valuable information from the medical literature, it is becoming extremely
popular in the medical field as well.
4. Spam Filtering
Text mining is used to filter and exclude the emails from inboxes and thus improving the
overall user experiences. With the help of this application it reduces the risk of cyber
attacks to the end users.
5. Fraud Detection
By combining the outcomes of the text analysis with relevant structured data we are able
to process the user profile and claims efficiently as well as to detect and prevent frauds.
